So that was a lot of important and very useful objects syntax which you'll encounter a lot throughout your
Javascript career,
time for something totally new, the this keyword
and what's the this keyword?
Well let's say on our movie here, we of course have our title right, now we want to make sure that we
can actually output this title in all upper case.
Now of course that can easily be achieved if you go to the place where you use the title, here, and then
for examples since title is a string, there is a specific string method which you just have to know and
hence I'm telling you right now, there is a toUppercase method available on every string
and if we call that and reload here and I add Javascript level 5, click add movie you see Javascript
is all uppercase.
Now that's not too fancy, right? Now we have to call toUppercase here and obviously there is
nothing wrong with that,
right?
Don't get me wrong, there's nothing wrong with calling toUppercase here but sometimes you want to bake
certain logic into your objects,
it would be nice if we had a method in here, for example get formatted title or anything like that,
so a function stored in here which returns us this formatted title, this would be nice to have.
Well there is a specific keyword available in Javascript which you cannot just use inside of functions
which are part of objects but actually everywhere in your code but which is most important when you
use it inside of functions that are part of objects and that's the this keyword.
The this keyword can be quite complex, though actually it's pretty easy to remember what it refers to.
Inside of a function, no matter if that function is part of an object or not,
the this keyword will refer to whatever called that function, whatever was responsible for executing
that function you could say. Now you might say that's me, the developer but I mean in your code of course.
Now let me give you an example, let's say here we want to return this.info.title.toUppercase
so that this conversion logic is inside of our object.
That's something you often want to do in programming, you want to put logic into your objects and thus
far in this course, we always just use objects to store data,
nothing wrong with that but you get more flexibility if you're willing or if you're able to put logic
into your objects as well because then you have these shareable data containers which do not just yield
you data which you then have to work with and maybe transform
once you pulled it out of the object but which also include certain included logic which is kind of
in a box which you can just tap into to get it to run, to do something and the this keyword is key here
because otherwise without it, this here would not look for the info property in the object,
this would look for some info variable around it and really behave strangely or in this case since we
have no info variable,
just fail.
So this is the keyword to tell Javascript
look into the object where this function is part of, though to be precise as you learned,
look at the thing which is responsible for executing the function which typically is this object
since this function is part of that object and then dive into some info property, into some title
property and try to call toUppercase on this.
Now with that, we can go to the place where we pull out data from our movie and here, this object
destructuring where I get my title is no longer needed but we can actually also use object destructuring
on a method if we want to,
we don't have to but we can,
so here get formatted title is the name and we can therefore just extract get formatted title from movie,
not from info because it's actually part of the movie object itself, it's not part of info, if I would
put it into info, we would get problems in the for/in loop where I would have to include it in my if check
there basically. So I'm just pulling it out of movie like this
and then here where I need my title, I can just execute it as a function because it is a function.
Now let's actually not do this right now however, I'll comment it out for a moment because right now
we would run into a problem here which we don't fully understand yet and instead, let's just do movie
.getFormattedTitle. You might think it's totally equal to using destructuring here but it's actually
not and I will explain why in a second,
for now let's do it like this.
So now I'm calling get formatted title on my movie object because it is a part of that movie object,
it's a method in that movie object and if I now save that and I reload and I enter Javascript here, level 5
and click add movie, we see an uppercase title down there,
so our method works and the this keyword works.
Now what is this referring to?
I said it's the thing which is responsible for calling the function and there's a really easy way of
memorizing how you see what is responsible,
it's always the thing in front of the function,
so here we have a dot in that movie, therefore movie is the thing which is responsible for executing
get formatted title, that's perfect because movie is the object with the title property in the info property
and therefore this refers to this movie object and we can dive into info.title.toUppercase.